# Code
```
(define (new-if predicate then-clause else-clause)
  (cond (predicate then-clause)
        (else else-clause)))
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (new-if (good-enough? guess x)
          guess
          (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x)))
```

## What if it used the `if` expression
Scheme uses applicative-order evaluation. Which means, when evaluating a process, it evaluates the arguments and then applies.

However, some expressions, called special form, follow their unique evaluation rules. `if` expression is one of them.

General form of an if expression:
```
(if ⟨predicate⟩ ⟨consequent⟩ ⟨alternative⟩)
```

When evaluating an `if` expression, the interpreter does the following.
1. Evaluate the `⟨predicate⟩` part of the expression.
2. If the `⟨predicate⟩` evaluates to a true value, evaluate the `⟨consequent⟩` and return its value.
   Otherwise, evaluate the `⟨alternative⟩` and return its value.

Meaning that if the `⟨predicate⟩` did not evaluate to a true value, the `⟨alternative⟩` would not evaluate.

If the `sqrt-iter` used `if` expression: 
```
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (if (good-enough? guess x)
          guess
          (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x)))
```
If `good-enough?` evaluates to true, it returns the `guess`. Otherwise, recursively call `sqrt-iter` until `good-enough?` evaluates to true.
## What happens if you attempt to use `new-if` to compute square roots
If you use `new-if`, it would follow the applicative-order evaluation rule, rather than the rule defined by the `if` expression's special form.

General form of the `new-if` expression:
```
(new-if ⟨predicate⟩ ⟨then-clause⟩ ⟨else-clause⟩)
```

When evaluating the `new-if` expression, the interpreter does the following.
1. Evaluate the `⟨predicate⟩` part of the expression.
2. Evaluate the `⟨then-clause⟩` part of the expression.
3. Evaluate the `⟨else-clause⟩` part of the expression.
4. If the `⟨predicate⟩` evaluated to a true value, return the value of the `⟨then-clause⟩`.
   Otherwise, return the value of the `⟨alternative⟩`.

So this implementation of `sqrt-iter`:
```
(define (sqrt-iter guess x)
  (new-if (good-enough? guess x)
          guess
          (sqrt-iter (improve guess x) x)))
```
If this evaluates like previously stated, even if `good-enough?` evaluates to true, it proceeds to evaluate both `⟨then-clause⟩` and `⟨else-clause⟩`. Since `sqrt-iter` is recursively calling itself, it causes an infinite loop.